so if I build a new lens and my lens
only works with my camera then that's
vertical integration or if I build new
headphones and my headphones only work
with my
cable that's vertical integration now if
I build a new smartwatch and my
SmartWatch only works with my smartphone
be careful that might be illegal that's
a bit of an oversimplification but let's
talk about
it so this is a developing story and
will continue to develop for years but I
feel like it all comes down to something
that I've at least noticed in talking to
all these big companies all these very
public multi-billion dooll companies
they always have two reasons for any
public facing statement that they make
there's the reason for the
public and then there's the real reason
so there was just some news this past
week of the US Department of Justice
suing app
saying that they are an illegal Monopoly
in the United States the iPhone
specifically now whenever there's legal
proceedings obviously things get very
complicated and I won't even pretend to
be diving into this at a super deep
level but this is also interesting to me
because of all the stuff with the things
that we talk about every day with just
smartphones and gadgets and of course
this is a pretty us specific thing like
that obviously they're being sued by the
us but also their dominance Apple the
iPhone is the most popular in the US so
I think these are some numbers we should
keep in mind in the US the iPhone is at
like 60% market share and it's even way
higher up near 90% with young people
like it is ridiculously dominant but
worldwide the iPhone is at about a 25%
market share so the iPhone is
specifically trending towards a monopoly
in the United
States so here's where it gets really
interesting I would like to live in this
analogy for this video which is you've
heard about people describing Apple's
ecosystem as a Walled Garden before this
could not be more true right there's
this really really nice beautiful
luscious garden and in the middle of
that Garden is the iPhone and it has
these really tall thick walls all the
way around it so in an Ideal World right
you are just picking between different
options for a product based on its
merits based on its features so you just
look at the whole lineup and you go yeah
I like this one the best and that's how
you make your choice right sick but with
this one the claim is Apple is making it
really really difficult once you've
chosen Theirs to ever switch to anything
else so with this analogy again it's
really the walls of the garden that we
have the issue with so I'll give you
I'll do two examples so take the Apple
watch right this is this is one of the
examples in the department of Justice's
88 page PDF that they've submitted the
the iPhone and the Apple watch work
perfectly well together and only
together it's a feature it's by Design
that's how they are so two parts of that
are sketchy one is the Apple watch works
really well with the iPhone in a way
that no other Smartwatch can and two the
Apple watch does not work with any other
smartphone so look I don't think it's a
surprise that when Apple built a watch
they gave it all kinds of Integrations
with the iPhone so you can see them
working perfectly together you can see
and dismiss your notifications you can
reply to messages track your Fitness you
can even use it as a shutter for your
iPhone's camera all these features that
they just plug right into the iPhone
they work great and I think that's even
what Apple would tell people they would
agree like this is how we made it so
that they work amazingly well together
this is vertical integration it's
awesome but there's also the real reason
because the truth is now if you try to
use any other SmartWatch with the iPhone
you just don't get nearly as many of
those useful features from being super
well integrated if you try to use like a
Garmin Smartwatch for example you don't
get the viewfinder for the camera you
don't get the fitness tracking through
Apple Fitness you don't get quick
replies you don't get even image
previews to your text messages you don't
even get to choose which apps show you
notifications it's just all or nothing
so if you choose an iPhone then next
when you're looking for a smartwatch to
buy there's kind of only really one good
full-fledged option which is the Apple
watch this is also True by the way to
various degrees with airpods and air
tags and various other things in Apple's
ecosystem because they all are great
when you have an iPhone and work super
well with it but work horribly or not at
all when you don't so that is part of
the that's the walls around the
ecosystem that make it really hard to
leave because if you now want to switch
from the iPhone to the Android phone
you're not just switching phones you
have to now get a new phone and a new
watch and new headphones and a new
tracker and all this stuff because they
all worked so well with the iPhone and
so horribly with anything else so that
is a real barrier to people leaving this
ecosystem once they get into it so
another example is the whole blue
Bubbles and green bubbles thing that
they do I've already made an entire
video about this Dynamic if you haven't
already seen it I'll leave a link with
the like button below if you want to
watch it but basically today when
iPhones message other iPhones they have
tons of features and typing indicators
and highres media and those are blue
Bubbles and when they message Android
phones it falls back to SMS which is
slow low reses unencrypted trash that is
green bubbles and apple just refuses to
make iMessage work on Android the
Department of Justice actually literally
references a video of Tim Cook on stage
at a conference where he he says this
it's tough uh not to make it personal
but I can't send my mom certain videos
or she can't send me certain videos and
so we bu your mom an
iPhone all right and this this is so
poetic just because you know obviously
he's got this smile of like you guys all
know it's true but also it goes back to
what I said at the beginning which is
with any of these public facing
decisions there's the answer that they
give the
public and then there's the real reason
you know originally iMessage was built
back in the days where text messages
were basically paid per text like every
SMS cost money hence the green so
iMessage would work over the internet
and be unlimited and it would offer way
more features and they'd build on to it
over time adding encryption and
reactions and typing indicators all this
stuff and apple people and apple
themselves would probably all agree like
this is it's just a thing that Apple
built that's way better than SMS like
it's not their fault SMS sucks they just
made a better thing uh so yeah of course
yeah they're going to build their their
own version of a thing and it's not
illegal to not also develop it for
Android they just made their own thing
for the
iPhone but also Tim Cook's quote just
buy your mom an iPhone is the other
equally valid point it's the real reason
there are plenty of internal emails that
have surfaced over time with apple
Executives openly talking about how
giving iMessage to Android would make it
easier for people to switch to Android
from the iPhone iMessage is clearly one
of the walls of the ecosystem and it's
it's probably one of the biggest
thickest walls like ask any Young person
in the US today why they use an iPhone
and I think a lot of them would probably
tell you something to do with imessage
so is this stuff that they're doing
illegal I guess is the question or maybe
even another way to phrase it is is
Apple making other products worse or are
they making their own products really
good and then not letting other things
outside the ecosystem have access to
those
things it's kind of both honestly but
the thing is they're not the only ones
doing a lot of this stuff they are just
the ones that happen to be in this
pseudo Monopoly position right now like
the pixel watch for example does not
work at all with the iPhone it just
works perfectly with Android phones but
is anybody that mad about that you know
RCS is announced to be coming to the
iPhone at some point in 2024 but I can
almost guarantee it'll probably still be
green bubbles it will probably be the
absolute bare minimum of supporting RCS
and they will probably still be
delineating very clearly between iPhone
to iPhone iMessage and iPhone to Android
something else and there's even more to
this lawsuit like Apple pay is another
one how no other services can use the
NFC chip on the iPhone um super apps is
another one like if you want to look at
all this stuff I will link the best
stuff I can find down below so my take
is Apple is technically yeah guilty of
all of these things they're doing all
this stuff but in the Walled Garden
analogy it's like they have built up a
really really nice garden and apple
would say like look our gard it's so
green and Luscious and beautiful they've
built the most beautiful garden with the
most people in it but they've also built
up the biggest walls around that garden
and so Apple would love to say look
everyone's chosen our garden and they're
all staying in our garden that's how
great it is but even if you saw another
Greener softer better Garden somewhere
else the walls to escaping to getting to
that are just way too high so it's less
that each individual thing that they're
doing with the products working well
together is illegal and it's more that
they feel like they have to do something
about this one company having so much
power and control in smartphones which
is here it's it's essentially a
commodity it's just like a thing that
everybody has so I want to leave you
with this you remember at the beginning
when I talked about how Apple's
ridiculously dominant in the US and
these crazy numbers like 90% of young
people the crazy thing is they're super
super popular here but as I mentioned
they are not a monopoly anywhere else
and why why is that true how are they so
popular here and they're doing all the
same stuff in other places but they're
not a monopoly in other places and so I
think of China for example China is
another huge smartphone market where
WeChat is kind of like this super super
app it's a huge thing like it's
messaging it's payments it's also
calling a taxi and also paying your
bills and ordering food groceries like
WeChat is everything so just as long as
your phone has WeChat then the rest is
kind of doesn't really matter it's up to
you and so in China there's this
incredibly vibrant Innovative landscape
of all these smartphone manufacturers
competing like crazy like Huawei xiaomi
Oppo and iPhone is in there too but
they're all just competing ruthlessly
with Hardware features and with other
stuff to try to get your attention to
maybe pick their phone cuz it's just
you're into they all have weat so in a
market like that people will buy your
phone based on if it's actually better
or not meaning there's lots of Gardens
and very few walls around those Gardens
that's what a good competitive landscape
looks like now what would be maybe
illegal or a wrong thing to do is if
WeChat or the makers of WeChat of
tensent made a phone and then they gave
their phone special access to certain
parts of WeChat that suddenly no other
phone could get
then Monopoly so this lawsuit and all
this legal versus illegal stuff I it's
mainly just a way to try to poke some
holes and get closer to that level of
lower Walls and More competition that
makes everybody better then we're
actually competing on Innovation again
but it's something that will be evolving
for a long time over time so it'll be
interesting to keep an eye on speaking
of things that might be illegal shout
out to dbrand for sponsoring this video
so you might have heard about unless
you've been living under a rock you've
heard about their grip Case by now so
I've got their latest hydro dip cases
here and I got to say the name matches
it perfectly you know these days a lot
of phone cases are just kind of boring
plastic shells but with dbrand they're
kind of playing with some stuff and
these are some crazy colorways and these
trippy hydro dipped patterns plus with
the gold rush one if you catch it under
the right light you'll notice a little
low-key metallic effect under this matte
finish which is sick now in addition to
the impact protection that you expect
from a premium case
perfect uh grip cases also have what I
would consider attention to detail so
that's two things first of all these
buttons they're just really clicky
they're nice they're probably better
than the actual phones buttons but also
in general like we've all eventually
dropped a phone whether it's like out of
a car or on your face while watching a
YouTube video it happens uh ideally this
case prevents it because it's it's in
the name it's the grip case that's
texture is is pretty nice at that so
it's hopefully going to prevent that
sort of drop stuff but in the case you
do drop it
then yeah should be fine it's good so
yeah if you want to if you're a case
person I would say at least get yourself
a nice grip case I'll leave a link below
but that's it thanks for watching this
video and let me know what you think
about these features and the iPhone and
everything going on with it and I'll
catch you guys in the next video peace
he